---
title: Providing Information on Suspected Financial Irregularities
permalink: /faq-givefeedback/
variant: markdown
description: ""
---
<p><strong>1. Does AGO act on feedback or complaints from the public including whistle-blowing?</strong></p><p>AGO welcomes feedback or complaints including whistle-blowing that relate to loss or potential loss of public funds; for example, on practices that may point to non-compliance with financial and procurement rules, waste and extravagance, and suspected misappropriation or fraud.</p><p><strong>2. How do I provide information to AGO?</strong></p><p>You can email, call, fax or write to us. Click here for details.</p><p><strong>3. What happens after I have provided information to AGO?</strong></p><p>All information received are considered by AGO. Where there is a prima facie case of irregularities affecting public funds, AGO will carry out an audit investigation. The timing of the investigation would depend on the nature of the case, as well as AGO's audit schedule and resources.</p><p>Where necessary, AGO may refer cases to the public agency concerned or the appropriate authority such as the police or the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau without disclosing the identity of the informant.</p><p><strong>4. How will I know the outcome of the investigation?</strong></p><p>Findings from investigations based on information received from the public are included in the "management letter" issued by AGO to the CEO of the statutory board or the permanent secretary of the ministry as the case may be. Selected findings are also mentioned in the Report of the Auditor-General which is presented to the President, tabled in Parliament and issued to the media. This usually happens in July of each year.</p><p></p><p><strong>5. Will the identity of the informant be kept confidential?</strong></p><p>As a policy, AGO keeps the identity of informants confidential (unless disclosure is required by law).</p>